# Travel Tips

From Ben Andrews:

> http://matrix.itasoftware.com/cvg/dispatch is my main secret weapon. It’s
pretty flexible and is provided by one of the big three global distribution
systems, so it shows you a raw, unbiased feed of what fares are available.
There’s an extensive query language you can use if you want to be creative –
searching for flights from SEA::IAH,EWR will find you only routings that
connect in Houston or Newark on the outbound direction, for example, and
there’s lots more along those lines. It’s also got a nice weekend and monthlong
search feature that can often reveal the lowest prices. You can just log in as
guest, no need to make an account.

> Matrix is just a search engine, not a booking site, so once you find a
flight, just go to the airline’s own site to book your ticket without any extra
fees. (ITA Software shows you very detailed booking information that usually is
enough to get the ticket booked.) If that fails for whatever reason, Orbitz is
where I’d go next, since their backend is based on ITA Software’s platform.

> If you’re curious whether to buy now or not, Microsoft’s own Bing Travel
stuff (formerly Farecast) is actually very well done if you’re flying between
common domestic destinations. http://www.farecast.com/ It keeps historical data
and charts fares over time, which is pretty cool data.

> http://www.seatguru.com/ will help you pick good seats once you’ve got your
flights, too – it hasn’t steered me wrong yet J

> Finally, if you just want to go somewhere and don’t much care where: Yahoo
has a nice rundown of the lowest fare from Seattle to most cities in the US,
http://search.travel.yahoo.com/bin/search/bfsearch?intl=us&oc=sea . For even
more detail, http://www.farecompare.com/search/flyertalk.html lets you see a
spreadsheet style dump of all the currently available fares from Seattle, which
you can then filter down by destination region, price per mile, airline, etc.
Based on a quick glance on that list, may I suggest sunny…uh, Columbus, OH? J
